# Supervised Machine Learning Homework - Predicting Credit Risk

In this assignment, you will be building a machine learning model that attempts to predict whether a loan will be approved or not. 

## Background

Lending services companies allow individual investors to partially fund personal loans as well as buy and sell notes backing the loans on a secondary market. This data will be used to determine whether a borrower is creditworthy and should be issued a loan. 

You will be using this data to create machine learning models to classify the risk level of given loans. Specifically, you will be comparing the Logistic Regression model and Random Forest Classifier.

## Instructions

### Retrieve the data

The data is located in the Resources folder.

* `lending_data.csv`

Import the data using Pandas.

## Abstract
### For this Project, I have used two models, a logistic regression and a random forests classifier to predict the loan status of the individual borrower based on his/her/their credit worthiness measured by i.e. debt-to-income ratio, number of accounts open, total debts, and their incomes.
we will be using binary classification models and training them using 7 variables as shown in the dataframe to predict the loan status of individual borrowers. 

## Prediction
### I suspect the accuracy of the model to predict the loan status as "disapproved" or "1" to not be perfect as I see right off the bat from the table, with some individuals having a high total debt, high number of accounts open, and debt-to-income ratio did get approved which is denoted by "0."

## Conclusion
### Our **Random Forests model** that we trained had an accuracy of 100% to predict the approval of loan based on the individual's credit-worthiness measures. but As we have anticipated, accuracy was only 87% when predicting the loan disapproval. This validates our observation on the data by which despite the high debt, debt-to-income, and number of accounts open for some individuals, they were given a loan. This is perhaps due to the fact that the credit worthiness threhold varies by institution.
### For our prediction for loan disapproval, **adaptive boosting classifier** actually helped us get a higher prediction accuracy. The accuracy of the prediction may have improved due to the weight of incorrectly classified instances being adjusted by boosting the good decision trees and reducing the bad decision trees.

### References

Loan Approval Dataset (2022). Data generated by Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand, and is intended for educational purposes only.

- - -

© 2021 Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand. All Rights Reserved.



